This is a list of known "issues" in the current Rockbox.

These are flaws/bugs we know of that are not likely to be fixed within a
reasonable time so we list them here and close the bug tracker entries for
them.

FS#894 - When the complete playlist fits in the mpeg buffer, and the playlist
  is played multiple times, the tracks are reloaded from disk multiple times
  instead of loaded only once.

FS#2147 - It's a bug in the MAS. It starts bitshifting data on occasion. High
  load on the MAS makes this behaviour more likely (high recording level, high
  quality setting, high sample rate). It's impossible to avoid, but there are
  plans to implement a recording 'framewalker' that checks recorded data and
  restarts recording when the MAS starts delivering bitshifted data.

FS#4937 - A constant rhythmic ticking noise occurs in the right
  channel. Believed to be related to our slow I2C implementation, and occurs
  when the battery status and/or realtime clock are updated (the battery is
  read at up-to 2.5hz and the clock at up-to 1hz). Nothing is going to change
  with it until someone spends a lot of time analyzing the portalplayer's I2C
  control registers, or finds a datasheet for the damned thing.

FS#5796 - Early encoders such as this one employed a floor of type '0', as
  opposed to the more efficient/cheaper floor type '1' which has been used in
  all encoders from libvorbis 1.0 onwards, I believe.

  The problem appears to be that most DAP decoders can only handle a floor of
  type '1'.

  While floor '0' type files like mine are, it turns out, pretty rare, they
  still conform to the standards, as can be seen in the documention linked
  below:

  http://www.xiph.org/vorbis/doc/Vorbis_I_spec.pdf

  which specifically states that "Floor 0 is not to be considered
  deprecated..."

  Files like these require quite a bit of memory to decode, more than what
  Rockbox has set aside for the purpose. Adding a real malloc for the codecs
  might help...

FS#6411 - Resuming a playlist after having deleted one or more files makes
  the resume point end up on the wrong song.
